Performance Measurements

1.	Introduction

The performance measurements have been taken using four applications,
which contained informationen about flight-connections between cities.
These  applications are based on two example databases, which have been
used in Munich to take performance measuremets of the deductive
database system LOLA.

2.	Modelling the example databases in TELOS

2.1 User defined classes

Cities are stored as instances of the user-defined class city.
TELOS-Frame defining class city:

Individual city in Class with attribute
	con_to : city
end

Example: an instance of city is 'hannover'
Individual 'hannover' in city  with
 con_to
       F26 : 'frankfurt';
       F27 : 'berlin';
       F28 : 'nuernberg';
       F49 : 'frankfurt';
       F52 : 'frankfurt';
       F59 : 'muenchen'
end

An attribute-class for instances of city!con_to is also defined.
Instances of this class contain more information about a
certain flight-connection.

TELOS-Frame definig city!con_to
Attribute city!con_to in Class with
  attribute
     departure : Integer;
     arrival : Integer;
     flnr : String
end

Example: F27, a flight from Hannover to Berlin

Attribute hannover!F27 in city!con_to with
  departure,attribute
     dept_time : 1620
  arrival,attribute
     arr_time : 1700
  flnr,attribute
     flight_number : "ba774"
end

2.2 Files
The models, which were used to build the applications can be found in the following files:

city.sml:		Frames defining city andd city!con_to
cities100.sml:		Frames defining the 42 instances of city in the smaller
			database, but without attributes of category con_to.

cities1470.sml:	Frames defining the 115 instances of city in the bigger
			database, but without attributes of category con_to.
c100.sml		Frames defining the 42 instances of city in the smaller
			database, with attributes of category con_to.
c1470.sml		Frames defining the 115 instances of city in the bigger
			database, with attributes of category con_to.
fl100.sml		Frames defining the 100 instances of city!con_to in
			 the smaller database
fl1470.sml		Frames defining the instances of city!con_to in the
			bigger database

2.4	The query

The task is to find out all cities connected to munich, direct or indirect. This
implies the calculation of a transitive closure.

QueryClass connected isA city with
             constraint
                           fm_rule: $ ((muenchen con_to  this) or
                                                (exists cc/connected
                                                  (cc con_to this)))$
end


This query can be found in the file queries.sml



3. Other examples/performance tests

The files BigFlights.sml and BigFlights2.sml contain
similar models and some other recursive queries to test
the performance of the ConceptBase system. BigFlights2.sml
defines the transitive closure by the use of MetaFormulas.


